How to add a cutom domain to a wesbite hosted on Github Pages

Now that you have your website hosted for free on Github Pages, you can cutomize your domain to something other than yourgithubusername.github.io

1- Get a domain.

There are many options to purchase a domain. The most popular is GoDaddy but you can choose whichever provider you'd like.
If you already own a domain skip this step.

2- On your website's repository main page, click on "Settings" on the top right corner.

3- Click on "Pages" on the left hand side under the "Code and automation" section.

4- Under "Source", there will be a drop down tab that says "None". Click on it and change it to "main"

5- Leave the folder as "/(root)" and click on "Save"

6- Under "Custom Domain", enter the name of your domain and click on "Save"
Example: yourdomain.com

Note that this step will create a CNAME file on your repository. Do not delete this.

As an option you can click on the box that says "Enforce HTTPS". Although not mandatory, it's recommended.

7- This will prompt a DNS check.

8- On the upmost top right hand corner you will see a drop down tab with your account. Click on it and select "Settings"

9- Now in "Settings", click on "Pages" under the "Code, planning and automation" section.

10- Click on the green button that says "Add a domain", enter the name of your domain, for example yourdomain.com and select add domain.

11- It will ask you to verify your domain by adding a DNS TXT record.

12- Make note of the verification steps and head to your domain provider to create a TXT record.

Do not close this page. Write down the hostname and value for the TXT record and leave the page open so you can click on verify later on.

13- On your domain provider, click on DNS settings (the specific steps will depend on the provider)

14- Add a DNS record of type TXT and write the name and value that you just obtained. 

15- Once you add the record, go back to the domain verification page that was opened and click on the green button that says verify.


Congrats! Now you have a website with a custom domain.

Check out the other articles and thank you for reading!
